hi I'm Paul burns with porcelain tub
restorations bathroom evasion hq.com and
we're here our shop at tub potion labs
where we develop equipment products and
coatings for this industry today we're
going to take a look at three issues
that you might be interested in
first is mechanical and chemical
adhesion and then we're gonna take a
look at the performance of these
different products and we're gonna take
a look at the aesthetic quality of the
products so let's get started when we
talk about mechanical adhesion we talked
about taking the gloss off getting it
prepared for adhesion and this tile has
been DHE glossed and it's now got nooks
and crannies for to improve the
performance of the coatings having
something to lock on to as the coatings
tighten up and shrink as they cure it
gives them something to grab onto
fiberglass acrylic tubs can be abraded
edged with sandpaper whereas this can't
touch it you can hear the difference in
sound with the abraded tile okay most
refinishing contractors nowadays atching
used to be absolutely critical but now
we try most big contractors are trying
to use chemical adhesion to skip the
step of etching with some success and
some not must use an epoxy primer for
the adhesion some take it a step further
by using a Saline that the industry
regularly uses and this is a wipe on
primer - one time you should put it on
throw it away I'm not a big fan of these
because they're not stable and they gel
on contact with atmospheric moisture and
the adhesion quality is so-so after an
extensive search there's literally
hundreds and hundreds of salines
available in the industry and these were
developed in the aerospace industry for
space vehicles so they get the coatings
- sticking in space and after a lot of
research we found the portion of all
salines in germany and we've added it to
our tub pushing line of products and
we're gonna take a look at the
performance issues today all right here
we have a glazed tile represents a
porcelain finish on a on a tub and this
is an epoxy coating an activated epoxy
with an activated polyurethane topcoat
and we're just going to take a look at
the adhesion qualities
not very good these were all shot
several days ago and allowed to cure now
we have one with a saline applied that's
often using in the industry and it's
giving some performance value a little
bit better than the straight epoxy now
we're going to take a look at tub potion
number eight on an unglazed tile and
this has a polyester bonding primer
versus an epoxy and this also has the
polyester topcoat very compatible
systems I'm going to show you that in a
minute - pretty good this is the same
product come push a number a with our
polyester bonding primer and polyester
topcoat on an edge tile
and just to show you that I haven't done
anything to the razor blades these are
still quite sharp that's the difference
in performance this Saline is heads and
tails above the other salines on the
market
the performance value is greatly
improved using top potion number eight
along with the polyester a bonding
primer it's just incredible so let's
take a quick look at the aesthetic value
okay and the one on the right is the
epoxy and you can see the reflection
from the lamp in the ceiling and look at
the clarity difference as we go to the
polyester it's much cleaner it's much
flatter it's just a much cleaner looking
shine much more resembling the original
porcelain as you can see the shine on
the glazed tile is equal on the coating
and was it come over here it becomes
foggy and there's no texture to the tile
to the coating it's much sharper only on
the glaze so the epoxy polyester
probably excuse me polyurethane coatings
just don't quite have the same effect as
the polyester nose
all right so that's the big difference
in the quality of the coatings you get
at just a much much nicer look and we
get a much improved adhesion so
aesthetically and performance wise it's
just a superior product now take another
look at why I don't like the epoxy
polyurethanes here we have our polyester
product and I'm going to add the primer
that's been activated to the topcoat to
show its compatibility this is an epoxy
primer activated with the polyurethane
topcoat activated and what happens is
they're not compatible with each other
and it's one reason why I don't like to
use them for our coatings as the
chemistry turns into jello and I just
feel like it's much better solution to
stay within the same family of coatings
as you can see this is still in a liquid
state and we achieve that by using the
same catalyst in all the products this
is all polyester bonding primer tub
potion number 11 and then we go to our
tub potion number 13 which is a
polyester porcelain white we also have
the porcelain bone and we have a clear
coat which works great for hard water
problems with well waters and such but
all three are activated with the same
activator and this is an aliphatic
activator high-performance keeps the
coatings from turning yellow or changing
color along with our tub potion number
eight say Lane it's a knockout
combination so we try to give you a
really quality product here and it's
important to test and to prove to folks
exactly what it is they're getting okay
I think we've about got it we've covered
the performance issues we've covered
adhesion issues with our saline and
bonding primer it's not absolutely
necessary to etch but we still believe
and giving you both types of adhesion
mechanical and chemical both these were
just a beautiful as the way they
performed and the way that they look so
thank you much I think that covers it
you have any questions don't
hesitate to contact us at forts and tub
restorations hey thanks for watching
you